---
layout: defaults
title: "Books"
published: false
---
<!--
  I have a bad memory. When I finish a book, I go through my Kindle looking for one that I haven't read yet. While I normally remember having read a book, I often forget what it was about. This frustrates me. A lot.

  I decided that I'd write a little summary, for myself, about these books. This isn't meant to be published. It's really just some notes for myself and as such, it can certainly container **SPOILERS**.

  I just decided to stick it here, because, well, why not?
-->

## Gene Wolfe's - Book of the New Sun
Set in the distant future of a dying earth, much of the inhabitants live, by our own standards, a simple life. The protagonist, Severian, is torturer (of the Torturer's Guild). Sheltered for most of his life, he suddenly finds himself exploring the world. During his travel he forms companions and enemies. The latter largely thanks to his accidental acquisition of the Conciliator's Claw, a religious relic.

The books are complex. They warrant a second read. Science plays a small part in this series. Most are so simple that science and magic are indistinguishable. 

##  Arthur C. Clarke - Rendezvous with Rama
The solar system has been colonized when a sudden and large alien space ship comes into contact with humanity. An expedition is sent to intercept and explore the ship. There's much speculation about its purpose. Some fear it has aggressive intentions, namely the Mercury which is closest to the intruder's orbit. Some think that it's an arc ship, sent to save humanity from some calamity. Others simply think that the ship is refueling.

The book is largely focused on trying to the purpose of the ship as small pieces of information are revealed by the exploration team. One thing that's clear is that whoever built the ship does everything in threes. So, once the ship leaves orbit, the question is, are there also 3 ships?

This is 1 of 3 in the series. I should read the rest.

##  Ian McDonald - The Dervish House
Set in Turkey in our near future, the book focuses on nano-technology and its use, for the most part, as a weapon. Specifically, nano-technology is used to cause religious experiences in people. There are a lot of characters, a lot of side stories. Meh.

##  Daniel H. Wilson - Robopocalypse
Terminator, but stupid (with no time travel..AI tries to kill all humans, *yawn*. There's no way the humans could even come close to winning. 

## Hannu Rajaniemi - The Quantum Thief (his first novel)
Protagonist is a renowned thief who is sprung from prison for the purpose of stealing an item. Much of the journey is about trying to recover his memory. It's heavy science fiction, set in the distant future. It was good, but not good enough to bother trying to remember the vastness.

## M. John Harrison - Light
Follows three different stories, one set in the present, the other two sent in the distant future. The three are linked, though only loosely until the end. 

All three stories are about trying to explore The Kefahuchi Tract - a dangerous part of space no known civilization has successfully explored. All three stories are gently directed by The Shrander  - a secret and frightening entity. Its likely trying to use humanity to discover what it can't on its own.


##  Alfred Bester - The Demolished Man
Crime novel where telepathy is common. Although I'd say *yawn*, this book was written in the 50s. Simple science-fiction by today's standards, which is actually quite refreshing.

## Iain M. Banks - The Algebraist
Distant future where interstellar travel is only possible thanks to costly artificial wormholes. The destruction of these wormholes can isolate entire sectors and make it difficult for the ruling government to defend its vast territory. The backstage of this book is such a military situation.

The main story is about a human who might have uncovered the formula to pinpoint a rumored list of secret wormholes used by the powerful Dwellers - a species that doesn't bother itself with the affairs of other races.  Such a list would change the face of civilization, so everyone's after it.

## Paolo Bacigalupi - Ship Breaker
Post-apocolyptic earth where children are used to scavenge ship wreaks for the raw material. Protagonist, one such laborer, comes across a crashed yacht containing a severely injured girl: the niece of one of the richest mans in the world. Turn her over for profit? Steal her stuff? Protect her? Typical story from that point on...kid vs world to save the princess.

## Dan Simmons - Hyperion 
AI is torn into three faction: Kill all Humans, Live With Humans, Who Cares Let's Build A Better AI. AIs of the future build the time tombs and send the Shrike, a powerful creature through it. It's somewhat limited in what it can do, but what it does do seems to vary, suggesting different factions control it at different times. Additional, future humans, which have biologically morphed to extremes (living in space) are also involved in the time tomb trying to protect humanity.

It's a masterfully told story (I explained it from the end) and a wonderful universe (horrifying, but wonderful nonetheless)

## Dan Simmons - Ilium/Olympos
Some humans have been turned into Gods, live on Mars, and live the life of the Greek Gods. They spend their time observing the Battle of Troy. AIs which live further out in the solar system are sent to Mars to explore what all the recent commotion is about.

Other humans, in a different dimension, are living in a post-apocalypse. Their lives are perfect, they live like zombies essentially, but don't even realize it. One day one of them starts to get curious and expands his knowledge (he learns to read again rather than just using the advanced functions built into his DNA to absorb books). The two worlds collide...more powerful beings are involved..blah blah. Great books, just don't remember all the inter-dimensional and higher-power stuff.